https://ici.radio-canada.ca/rci/en
Radio Canada International | Radio-Canada.ca Jump to main contentJump to page footer Headlines Latest News Podcasts (new window) EnglishEN Home RCI in every language The following list offers content in several languages. Beginning of list of 7 items. Skip list? Les feux de forêt provoquent un recul du secteur énergétique en Alberta Les feux de forêt provoquent un recul du secteur énergétique en Alberta. Publié il y a 2 jours. La baisse de production en mai a été la plus forte diminution depuis la pandémie. Il y a 2 joursIndustrie pétrolière [Reportaje] La historia de una mujer alcanzada por la onda expansiva de un rayo [Reportaje] La historia de una mujer alcanzada por la onda expansiva de un rayo. Publicado: hace un día. Alexandra Liendo dice que no olvidará el 13 de julio de 2023. Hace un díaCuidados y tratamientos 【报道】乌克兰战争以来首部剧情片《保持在线》蒙特利尔首映：残酷与温馨交织 【报道】乌克兰战争以来首部剧情片《保持在线》蒙特利尔首映：残酷与温馨交织. 发布日期：2 天前. 蒙特利尔奇幻电影节过半；同时，推荐加拿大制作《爱与心脏》。 2 天前艺术 香港警察來加拿大參加世界警察與消防員運動會引起爭議和擔憂 香港警察來加拿大參加世界警察與消防員運動會引起爭議和擔憂. 發布日期：2 天前. 香港警方本月初懸賞百萬通緝八名海外港人。 2 天前體育 منظمو احتجاج سائقي الشاحنات يحاولون إلغاء الدعوى القضائية ضدهم منظمو احتجاج سائقي الشاحنات يحاولون إلغاء الدعوى القضائية ضدهم. تاريخ النشر: منذ 1 يوم. نُظم ما أطلق عليه ’’احتجاجات قافلة الحرية‘‘ ضد تدابير الصحة العامة التي تهدف للحدّ من انتشار جائحة كوفيد - 19. منذ 1 يومالمحاكمات والإجراءات ਮਨੁੱਖੀ ਤਸਕਰੀ ਦੇ ਮਾਮਲੇ ਵਿਚ ਬ੍ਰੈਂਪਟਨ ਦੇ ਸਿਮਰਨਜੀਤ ਸਿੰਘ ਨੇ ਅਮਰੀਕਾ ਦੀ ਅਦਾਲਤ ਵਿਚ ਦੋਸ਼ ਕਬੂਲੇ ਮਨੁੱਖੀ ਤਸਕਰੀ ਦੇ ਮਾਮਲੇ ਵਿਚ ਬ੍ਰੈਂਪਟਨ ਦੇ ਸਿਮਰਨਜੀਤ ਸਿੰਘ ਨੇ ਅਮਰੀਕਾ ਦੀ ਅਦਾਲਤ ਵਿਚ ਦੋਸ਼ ਕਬੂਲੇ. ਛਾਪਣ ਦੀ ਮਿਤੀ: 2 ਦਿਨ ਪਹਿਲਾਂ. ਭਾਰਤ ਤੋਂ ਕੈਲਗਰੀ, ਟੋਰੌਂਟੋ ਅਤੇ ਮੌਂਟਰੀਅਲ ਰਾਹੀਂ 1,000 ਤੋਂ ਵੱਧ ਬੰਦੇ ਅਮਰੀਕਾ ਭੇਜੇ 2 ਦਿਨ ਪਹਿਲਾਂਇਮੀਗ੍ਰੇਸ਼ਨ Canadians kailangan mag-apply ng travel permit para makapasok sa 30 bansa sa Europa Canadians kailangan mag-apply ng travel permit para makapasok sa 30 bansa sa Europa. Ipinost: 2 araw ang nakalipas. Bibiyahe ka ba sa Europa sa susunod na taon? 2 araw ang nakalipasBiyahe End of list of 7 items. Back to beginning of list? Headlines The next 1 news items are related to the same topic Ontario man smuggled people from India to U.S., through Calgary, Toronto, Montreal Ontario man smuggled people from India to U.S., through Calgary, Toronto, Montreal. Posted: 2 days ago. An Indian national who lived in Brampton, Ont., pleaded guilty to 9 counts of alien smuggling in U.S. court 2 days agoImmigration A mysterious cellphone, cryptic instructions and an interrupted smuggling run of 14 … A mysterious cellphone, cryptic instructions and an interrupted smuggling run of 14 Indian nationals. Posted: 3 days ago. Automatic Canada Workers Benefit payments begin flowing today Automatic Canada Workers Benefit payments begin flowing today. Posted: 2 days ago. July payment is first of 3 meant to help low-, medium-income Canadians fight inflation 2 days agoFederal Politics Threads has lost half its users since launch, Zuckerberg tells staff Threads has lost half its users since launch, Zuckerberg tells staff. Posted: 2 days ago. Company executives heavily focused on boosting retention 2 days agoSocial Networks Body found near Akwesasne ID’d as Casey Oakes Body found near Akwesasne ID’d as Casey Oakes. Posted: 2 days ago. Oakes was last seen March 29, operating a boat near Cornwall Island; his body was found July 3 2 days agoImmigration Edmonton Elks game to be first-ever professional football radio broadcast in Punjabi Edmonton Elks game to be first-ever professional football radio broadcast in Punjabi. Posted: 2 days ago. CFL team partners with local radio station to reach Punjabi fans across Alberta 2 days agoFootball Canada’s economy grew in May, despite wildfires that caused big slowdown in oil and … Canada’s economy grew in May, despite wildfires that caused big slowdown in oil and gas sector. Posted: 2 days ago. Forest fire activity led to biggest decline in oil and gas extraction since April 2020 2 days agoWildfire The next 1 news items are related to the same topic Advocates hope rookie minister acts quickly to tackle a wave of overdose deaths Advocates hope rookie minister acts quickly to tackle a wave of overdose deaths. Posted: 2 days ago. More than 36,000 people in Canada have died of overdoses between 2016 and 2022 2 days agoFederal Politics Does Trudeau’s cabinet shuffle really change anything? Does Trudeau’s cabinet shuffle really change anything?. Posted: 3 days ago. More news Consult the complete audio offer How hot and humid will your city be in the future? (new window)How hot and humid will your city be in the future?. Posted: 12 days ago. Use this tool to calculate how climate change could affect the number of muggy days where you live. Canada is warming up. Is your city, too? (new window)Canada is warming up. Is your city, too?. Posted: 2 months ago. 2 months ago Montreal, Centre of the A.I. World Montreal, Centre of the A.I. World. Posted: 4 months ago. 4 months agoArtificial Intelligence Racism in Canada: Words to tell wrongs Racism in Canada: Words to tell wrongs. Posted: a year ago. A year agoSociety The making of a service dog The making of a service dog. Posted: a year ago. A year agoHealth Reports ’Palpable fear’: 3 years after Beijing tightened control, Hong Kongers speak in … ’Palpable fear’: 3 years after Beijing tightened control, Hong Kongers speak in cautious whispers. Posted: a month ago. China's harsh national security law was imposed on the territory in 2020 A month agoInternational Why these Honduran women would like to see their country’s ’macho’ culture change Why these Honduran women would like to see their country’s ’macho’ culture change. Posted: a month ago. Lyzanka Garcia was abused emotionally and physically. Now, she’s helping other survivors A month agoInternational First nations in Quebec and Labrador recognize the rights of the St. Lawrence River First nations in Quebec and Labrador recognize the rights of the St. Lawrence River. Posted: 3 months ago. This huge waterway connects the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean and marks the border U.S.-Canada border. 3 months agoPolitics [Analysis] Professor Scott Simon: Canada has never recognized Taiwan as part of China [Analysis] Professor Scott Simon: Canada has never recognized Taiwan as part of China. Posted: 3 months ago. Liberal MP John McKay, Chair of the Standing Committee on National Defence and head of a parliamentary … 3 months agoInternational [Report] April is Sikh Heritage Month in Canada [Report] April is Sikh Heritage Month in Canada. Posted: 4 months ago. In Canada, the month of April is celebrated as Sikh Heritage Month. Throughout the month, events spotlighting … 4 months agoSociety Politics Does Trudeau’s cabinet shuffle really change anything? Does Trudeau’s cabinet shuffle really change anything?. Posted: 3 days ago. It was a sweeping cabinet shuffle, but not the kind that signals a change of course 3 days agoFederal Politics Economy Bank of Canada wary of hiking too much, too fast, deliberations show Bank of Canada wary of hiking too much, too fast, deliberations show. Posted: 3 days ago. Central bank issues summary of deliberations at their last meeting to decide on rate policy 3 days agoEconomic Indicators Health How extreme heat affects the human body — and can eventually kill you How extreme heat affects the human body — and can eventually kill you. Posted: 3 days ago. High temperatures can bring heart attacks, kidney failure and even poor judgment 3 days agoWeather Conditions Society Amid a nationwide housing shortage, what will it take to build more accessible homes? Amid a nationwide housing shortage, what will it take to build more accessible homes?. Posted: 2 days ago. Advocates call for change in building codes, more incentives to build accessible units 2 days ago Immigration A mysterious cellphone, cryptic instructions and an interrupted smuggling run of 14 … A mysterious cellphone, cryptic instructions and an interrupted smuggling run of 14 Indian nationals. Posted: 3 days ago. 3 days agoHuman Trafficking New housing minister says closing door on newcomers is no solution to housing crunch New housing minister says closing door on newcomers is no solution to housing crunch. Posted: 4 days ago. 4 days agoNewcomers More and more asylum seekers are coming to Canada. Is it enough to stem a global tide … More and more asylum seekers are coming to Canada. Is it enough to stem a global tide of refugees?. Posted: 4 days ago. 4 days agoAsylum Seekers Asylum claims followed Montreal AIDS summit marred by visa woes, planning issues Asylum claims followed Montreal AIDS summit marred by visa woes, planning issues. Posted: 5 days ago. 5 days agoFederal Politics Asylum seekers and refugees — what’s the difference? Asylum seekers and refugees — what’s the difference?. Posted: 10 days ago. 10 days agoAsylum Seekers Indigenous Exploring the rise of ’economic reconciliation’ in Canada Exploring the rise of ’economic reconciliation’ in Canada. Posted: 3 days ago. 3 days agoIndigenous Inuit elders retrace steps to Hamilton sanatorium where as children they endured … Inuit elders retrace steps to Hamilton sanatorium where as children they endured traumatic isolation. Posted: 4 days ago. 4 days agoIndigenous Marc Miller shuffled from Crown-Indigenous Relations portfolio Marc Miller shuffled from Crown-Indigenous Relations portfolio. Posted: 4 days ago. 4 days agoFederal Politics Maskwacis Pope anniversary: One year later, a need for more action Maskwacis Pope anniversary: One year later, a need for more action. Posted: 5 days ago. 5 days agoIndigenous Some advocates want residential school abuse records re-examined, archived as debate … Some advocates want residential school abuse records re-examined, archived as debate on their future continues. Posted: 6 days ago. 6 days agoIndigenous International Canadian AI pioneer brings plea to U.S. Congress: Pass a law now Canadian AI pioneer brings plea to U.S. Congress: Pass a law now. Posted: 4 days ago. Hearing comes as lawmakers in U.S. and Canada weigh legislation on world-changing tech 4 days agoArtificial Intelligence Science and Techno Signs show we’re dangerously near some climate tipping points Signs show we’re dangerously near some climate tipping points. Posted: 3 days ago. Imminent collapse of Atlantic current could lead to sudden, irreversible climate impacts, new study suggests 3 days agoClimate Change Environment July on track to be hottest month ever recorded, analysis shows July on track to be hottest month ever recorded, analysis shows. Posted: 3 days ago. Human-caused emissions 'main driver' of rising temperatures, says EU climate group 3 days agoWeather Conditions Arts How the Barbie movie marketing machine tapped into a cultural zeitgeist How the Barbie movie marketing machine tapped into a cultural zeitgeist. Posted: 10 days ago. Canadian designer Hilary MacMillan, footwear brand Aldo have launched Barbie collections 10 days agoConsumption To consult all our reports (new window) Yukon says yes to hosting 2026 Arctic Winter Games (new window)Yukon says yes to hosting 2026 Arctic Winter Games. 32 years on, research station north of Inuvik, N.W.T., still going strong (new window)32 years on, research station north of Inuvik, N.W.T., still going strong. RCI NEWSLETTER Wherever you are in the world, keep up with Canadian news. Email address Subscribe Strategic partners Radio Canada International is CBC/Radio-Canada's multilingual service that allows you to explore and, most importantly, understand and gain perspective about the reality of Canadian society, as well as its democratic and cultural values. Follow us Contact us Write to us at : english@rcinet.ca Radio-Canada.ca (in french) (new window) CBC.ca (new window) Visit the archives of Radio Canada International (new window) Back to top All rights reserved © Radio Canada International 2023
