https://www.bbc.com/news/world/us_and_canada
US & Canada - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC Account Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture TV Weather Sounds More menu Search BBC Search BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture TV Weather Sounds Close menu BBC News News Navigation Sections Home War in Ukraine Climate Video World US & CanadaUS & Canada selected UK Business Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures BBC Verify World News TV Newsbeat More More sections US & Canada Home War in Ukraine Climate Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News Business Business Home Market Data New Tech Economy Artificial Intelligence Technology of Business Economy CEO Secrets Companies Cost of Living Tech Science Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures BBC Verify World News TV Newsbeat US & Canada BBC News US & Canada Rivals' silence shows Trump's dominance in 2024 race At key Iowa dinner only one Republican opponent challenged Trump head on - and he was roundly booed. 1da day ago US & Canada Related content Trump tells crowd he is only Republican who can win Trump accused of asking employee to delete footage Why do Republicans want to impeach Joe Biden now? Related content Trump tells crowd he is only Republican who can win Trump accused of asking employee to delete footage Why do Republicans want to impeach Joe Biden now? Top Stories Rivals' silence shows Trump's dominance in 2024 race At key Iowa dinner only one Republican opponent challenged Trump head on - and he was roundly booed. 1da day ago US & Canada Related content Trump tells crowd he is only Republican who can win Trump accused of asking employee to delete footage Why do Republicans want to impeach Joe Biden now? US nurse and child kidnapped in Haiti, says charity The US State Department is aware of reports and is in 'regular contact' with Haitian authorities. 3h3 hours ago Latin America & Caribbean Scorching heat strains US air conditioning capacity Weather experts warn of "dangerously hot conditions" over the weekend for millions of Americans. 2d2 days ago US & Canada Judge dismisses Trump 'Big Lie' lawsuit against CNN Mr Trump alleged that the US cable network's use of the phrase likened him to Adolf Hitler. 1da day ago US & Canada Twitter restores Kanye West's account after ban The US rapper was accused of violating the rules on the social media platform now known as X. 23ha day ago Entertainment & Arts Biden acknowledges seventh grandchild for first time Navy Roberts is the daughter of the president's son Hunter, who was recently sued for child support. 1da day ago US & Canada 0:21 Video 21 seconds Watch: Injured horse flown to California hospital Obe, a 25-year-old horse, slipped and fell in southern California where firefighters came to his rescue. 1da day ago US & Canada Featured Contents Rivals' silence shows Trump's dominance in 2024 race At key Iowa dinner only one Republican opponent challenged Trump head on - and he was roundly booed. 1da day ago US & Canada Related content Trump tells crowd he is only Republican who can win Trump accused of asking employee to delete footage Why do Republicans want to impeach Joe Biden now? Related content Trump tells crowd he is only Republican who can win Trump accused of asking employee to delete footage Why do Republicans want to impeach Joe Biden now? US nurse and child kidnapped in Haiti, says charity The US State Department is aware of reports and is in 'regular contact' with Haitian authorities. 3h3 hours ago Latin America & Caribbean Scorching heat strains US air conditioning capacity Weather experts warn of "dangerously hot conditions" over the weekend for millions of Americans. 2d2 days ago US & Canada Judge dismisses Trump 'Big Lie' lawsuit against CNN Mr Trump alleged that the US cable network's use of the phrase likened him to Adolf Hitler. 1da day ago US & Canada Twitter restores Kanye West's account after ban The US rapper was accused of violating the rules on the social media platform now known as X. 23ha day ago Entertainment & Arts Biden acknowledges seventh grandchild for first time Navy Roberts is the daughter of the president's son Hunter, who was recently sued for child support. 1da day ago US & Canada 0:21 Video 21 seconds Watch: Injured horse flown to California hospital Obe, a 25-year-old horse, slipped and fell in southern California where firefighters came to his rescue. 1da day ago US & Canada US nurse and child kidnapped in Haiti, says charity The US State Department is aware of reports and is in 'regular contact' with Haitian authorities. 3h3 hours ago Latin America & Caribbean Scorching heat strains US air conditioning capacity Weather experts warn of "dangerously hot conditions" over the weekend for millions of Americans. 2d2 days ago US & Canada Judge dismisses Trump 'Big Lie' lawsuit against CNN Mr Trump alleged that the US cable network's use of the phrase likened him to Adolf Hitler. 1da day ago US & Canada Twitter restores Kanye West's account after ban Biden acknowledges seventh grandchild for first time 0:21 Video 21 seconds Watch: Injured horse flown to California hospital More US & Canada stories Emmy Awards postponed due to Hollywood strikes Alabama woman who faked her kidnapping is charged Abuse survivors laud military justice system reform Trump lawyers meet prosecutors in election inquiry Zuckerberg: Threads users down by more than a half Features The Texas town caught in America's border battle What is WeChat and why does Elon Musk want to copy it? Hunter Biden's plea deal collapsed. What happens now? The other American women's team at World Cup A daughter's quest to find her mother's remains Watch/Listen 0:15 Video 15 seconds Watch ‘epic’ moment three whales jump in unison 1:05 Video 1 minute 5 seconds Even cacti struggle under extreme weather Americast: X-tra Terrestrials 0:56 Video 56 seconds The moment an NYC crane catches fire and collapses 0:33 Video 33 seconds Father smashes windscreen to save baby in Texas Latest Updates Posted at 10:2810:28 Australia grounds helicopter fleet after crash By James Gregory BBC News The chief of the army says none of the 45 aircraft will fly again until they are found to be safe. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 8:508:50 Husband plants surprise sunflower field as golden wedding gift Video content Video caption: Watch: Farmer plants massive sunflower field in surprise gift for wifeWatch: Farmer plants massive sunflower field in surprise gift for wife Farmer Lee Wilson says he secretly planted 80 acres of the flowers as a 50th anniversary gift. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 8:498:49 Third firefighter dies as Canada wildfires rage By James Gregory BBC News An evacuation order is in place for towns near the US border as fires there swirl out of control. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 23:52 29 Jul23:52 29 Jul The Texas town caught in America's border battle By Bernd Debusmann Jr Reporting from Eagle Pass, Texas Eagle Pass is the front line in a showdown over migrants between Texas and the federal government. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 22:10 29 Jul22:10 29 Jul Watch: Injured horse flown to California hospital Video content Video caption: Watch: Injured Californian horse airlifted to safetyWatch: Injured Californian horse airlifted to safety Obe, a 25-year-old horse, slipped and fell in southern California where firefighters came to his rescue. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 19:00 29 Jul19:00 29 Jul Judge dismisses Trump 'Big Lie' lawsuit against CNN By Alys Davies BBC News Mr Trump alleged that the US cable network's use of the phrase likened him to Adolf Hitler. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 15:10 29 Jul15:10 29 Jul Rivals' silence shows Trump's dominance in 2024 race By Sarah Smith, North America editor Des Moines, Iowa At key Iowa dinner only one Republican opponent challenged Trump head on - and he was roundly booed. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 13:06 29 Jul13:06 29 Jul Black bear cools off in California swimming pool Video content Video caption: Black bear cools off in California swimming poolBlack bear cools off in California swimming pool Police responded to the unexpected visitor splashing around in the backyard of a home in Burbank. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 8:50 29 Jul8:50 29 Jul Biden acknowledges seventh grandchild for first time By James Gregory BBC News Navy Roberts is the daughter of the president's son Hunter, who was recently sued for child support. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 7:43 29 Jul7:43 29 Jul Taylor Swift Seattle concert generates seismic activity By James Gregory BBC News The activity equivalent to a 2.3 Magnitude quake beats a previous record set by fans celebrating a touchdown. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 3:42 29 Jul3:42 29 Jul Trump tells crowd he is only Republican who can win By Brandon Drenon & North America editor Sarah Smith BBC News, Washington DC & Iowa Rivals Donald Trump and Ron DeSantis headlined the Republican party's Lincoln Dinner. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 22:38 28 Jul22:38 28 Jul US tourist attacked in Dublin no longer in coma Stephen Termini remains in a serious condition after he was attacked in the city centre last week. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 22:09 28 Jul22:09 28 Jul Scorching heat strains US air conditioning capacity By Madeline Halpert BBC News, New York Weather experts warn of "dangerously hot conditions" over the weekend for millions of Americans. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 21:30 28 Jul21:30 28 Jul Slow-motion video shows lightning spectacle Video content Video caption: Slow-motion footage shows sprawling lightning spectacleSlow-motion footage shows sprawling lightning spectacle A severe storm hit the US state of Rhode Island with several lightning strikes covering the sky. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 21:27 28 Jul21:27 28 Jul Border buoys and migrants filmed in Rio Grande Video content Video caption: Border buoys and migrants filmed in Rio Grande riverBorder buoys and migrants filmed in Rio Grande river A drone camera captures migrants walking around newly installed water barriers in Texas. Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 20:12 28 Jul20:12 28 Jul Alabama woman who faked her kidnapping is charged By Madeline Halpert BBC News, New York Carlee Russell, 25, is accused of false reporting to law enforcement and falsely reporting an incident. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 16:06 28 Jul16:06 28 Jul Shush emojis and orders from the boss - new charges in full By Brandon Livesay and Sam Cabral BBC News, New York and Washington DC A revised indictment sets out new charges against Donald Trump, Walt Nauta and another employee. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 15:50 28 Jul15:50 28 Jul Trump accused of asking employee to delete footage By Brandon Drenon and Sam Cabral BBC News, Washington DC A revised indictment in the Mar-a-Lago classified files case adds new charges against Donald Trump. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 14:57 28 Jul14:57 28 Jul US woman jailed for Holocaust survivor romance scam By Madeline Halpert BBC News, New York The Florida woman stole the life savings of an 87-year-old to live a "life of luxury". Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Posted at 13:20 28 Jul13:20 28 Jul Nasa collect Rum rocks ahead of Mars space mission Scientists are gathering ancient rocks from the Isle of Rum for their similarity to rocks on Mars. Read more next Article share tools Facebook Twitter ShareView more share options Share this post Copy this link Read more about these links. Page 1 of 50 rewind previous Navigate to the next page nextNavigate to the last page forward Around the BBC The truth about baby-led weaning BBC Future Are Gen Z ready for the C-suite? BBC Worklife Could luggage be a thing of the past? BBC Travel The most powerful letter in English BBC Culture Wine's heat-beating weapon from the sea BBC Future Why we can't shake presenteeism BBC Worklife The city built on an ancient volcano BBC Travel Find us here News daily newsletter Get news from the BBC in your inbox each weekday morning Mobile app Find out more about our BBC News App Get in touch Email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk Follow Have Your Say on Twitter Why you can trust BBC News BreakingBreaking news Close breaking news News Navigation Sections World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected Sections Home Cost of Living War in Ukraine Climate UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Alba Wales Cymru Isle of Man Guernsey Jersey Local News World World selected World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & CanadaUS & Canada selected Business Business Home Your Money Market Data Companies Economy Technology of Business CEO Secrets Artificial Intelligence Politics Politics Home Parliaments Brexit Culture Tech Science Health Family & Education Family & Education Home Young Reporter In Pictures Newsbeat BBC Verify Disability BBC News Services On your mobile On smart speakers Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds Bitesize CBeebies CBBC Food Home News Sport Reel Worklife Travel Future Culture TV Weather Sounds Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Cookies Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Make an editorial complaint BBC emails for you Advertise with us Copyright © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
